>> Will Sentance: Let's just talk about
this thread of execution that wove in and
wove out.
We knew that when we finished
running multiply by two,
calling it invoking it with parens,
we knew that our threat of execution
was gonna come back out to global.
We kind of visually saw that it's being
run within the code of global JavaScript
needs to do more work on that is a track
that more accurately and precisely,
it has something called
the call stack to do, so.
JavaScript keeps track of what
function is currently running by using
this final part of our platform
of understanding our platform
of the JavaScript engine
called the call stack.
Here it is, it is a traditional way of
storing information on our computer,
we have a number of ways,
arrays, we have objects,
we also have what's called stacks.
We're not gonna go deeply
into their premise, but
a key thing with a stack is
when you add something to it,
when you run a function we're
going to add it to our call stack.
So when we started running
multiply by two up here,
we add it to our call stack,
multiply by two with the input of three.
Now JavaScript has certainty of
what is currently running where is
our thread of execution right now?
Well, it's busy inside a multiple by two,
cuz the one key single rule and
stack is we're only engaged with a very,
very top thing on it,
that's the only thing
we're interacting with.
So whatever's at the top of the call
stack, that's where we are right now.
As soon as we finish
running that function, and
by the way, Adam, actually, [SOUND] Jeff?
Jeff, what, Jeff tells us,
we have finished executing a function,
what keywords says,
end this function, move on.
>> Speaker 2: Return.
>> Will Sentance: Return exactly,
as soon as we hit return this function
execution context popped off
the call stack, so what's top?
That was underwhelming, so
what is top of the call stack now?
Well is there anything?
Yeah, always on the bottom of
the call stack folk is our global
execution context.
Think of all of our code inside
a function with the label global, and
as soon as we turn on JavaScript,
start running the code,
run that global function
run the overall code.
So that's always as soon as
you start running JavaScript,
global is added on the bottom.
And that's always there, so when we start
running multiply by two we add it on top,
when we finish running it, we remove it,
and where do we go back to?
Well don't panic,
what's left on the call stat, Kayla?
>> Speaker 3: Global.
>> Will Sentance: Global, and there it is,
excellent, thank you Kayla, there it is,
when we start running multiply by two
again with the input of 10, we add
it onto the call slack, there it is.
When we finish running it, we take it off,
and JavaScript doesn't panic and go,
where do I go?
It goes back to global, if I were to run
another function inside of multiplyBy2,
that would be added on top, another inside
of that, that would be added on top.
Finish running that one,
do I go back to global?
I go back to wherever I started running
that function, in other words, take it off
the stack and about where I was before and
that's the key premise of a stack.
Okay, but we're gonna see the cool side
quite a bit more over the session where
there's a call feature.
That is it people, that is the three
core components of JavaScript,
we have our memory to store data as
we go through the code line by line.
And amazingly, to store code
functionality, and we can then run and
trigger to run code whenever we want,
that's not a small thing,
that's quite remarkable.
And in a sort data, we saw code to run,
think about it, you're literally able to
start a little mini program of your
choice at any moment in your code.
And, then we have the thread of execution
to go through the code line by line,
a lot of the time it's storing data,
but it's also taking some of the stored
functionality code and
saying start running it.
We create a little mini program,
a little sub-program,
a execution context into which we go and
compartmentalize any data we're storing
while we're inside that function.
When we exit that function, all is
deleted, besides whatever we return out,
let's actually show that all is deleted,
the size,
whatever we return out, and
then run another function do the same.
We keep track of the functions
we're running and
where our thread of execution
is using our call stack.